Welcome back let's get into this section and the very first thing I want to talk about is mindset.
You see the biggest mistake that we made going into an interview is that while thinking that this is
your only chance the way you walk into an interview is to walk in knowing that you have many other opportunities.
This is just one of them.
It's not do or die it's not pass or fail.
If this interview goes wrong and you don't get the job your life isn't over.
So first and foremost treat everything as a learning experience.
And what I mean by that is you go into the interview whether it's a phone interview or an onsite interview
not expecting a job not hoping for a job.
Don't hope for anything at all.
Just go to learn to see where your weaknesses are.
To learn about a company and as with anything as if you're running code to check how good your code
is you just want to see how good you are at interviews.
So that's the key.
This is not your only chance.
And if you go into that already you're going to be less nervous you're going to be more comfortable
it's going to help you out a lot.
I know it's silly I know it's one of those things that we all know but really do that.
Don't go into an interview.
Nervous and thinking that you know what if I don't get this then I'm not good enough.
No this is just another practice another day at the office.
You just trying to get to where you want to be next.
Now what about when you actually go into the interview for the first time and this is where intervening
is very similar to dating.
Your interviewer is more likely to be excited about interviewing you if you're excited as well.
Because sometimes interviewers are people from human resources that do this every single day.
Or it could be other coders that are just taking time out of their day to interview.
So you want to make this exciting and fun for them.
It's not all about you it's also about them as well and they want to see if they want to work with you.
This is a little trick that it sounds silly but it really really does work.
Your goal is to enter the room with a lot of energy being happy excited to be there.
And this is a classic psychological technique where humans when we interact with each other we match
each other's energy and energy level.
So if you're excited if you're you're walking in there with a big smile ready to get the interview going
it's also going to jolt the interviewer to say All right let's do this let's have fun instead of just
going they're nervous and scared because the interviewer is going to match your energy.
So this is the trick.
Before you open that door say to yourself I'm about to go meet a really good friend like you've known
them for years.
And by acting like that you're going to make the interviewer like you more.
Again it sounds silly but it is a proven psychological technique.
Not only that but excitement is a signal that you actually want this job.
So again you're walking in about to meet a best friend and you're trying to make the interviewers day
not bore them to death.
And an interviewer wants to ask or answer three questions during this interview.
The first one we know can you do the job.
Do you have the coding skills necessary.
Do you actually have the skills necessary.
But this isn't the only question.
You'll also have.
Well can I work with you.
Is this the type of person that I want to be coworkers with or are they going to be fun to be around.
And this is a very important question that gets answered during this non-technical questions.
And then the third one is are you going to improve.
Because most of the times when you get hired as a developer you're not going to be 100 percent perfect
match for them on your first day on your first week the first month you're learning on the job and learning
their ways how their code bases work how their best practices works.
And you're constantly improving and they're looking for people that can adapt quickly and learn.
And a year from now become a really valuable asset.
The first question can you do the job.
We're prepared for that because we just finished a coding section.
We know how to answer difficult technical questions but these other two we haven't really talked about
them.
And again that's where we're going to cover here.
We're going to have the interviewer say yes to both of these last two questions.
This is what we call behavioral question.
Can I work with this person is this person going to be fun to work with.
And are they the type of person that's constantly improving that's going to become better and better
how do we do this.
Well for the rest of the section I wanted to keep in mind these four figures what I call the four heroes
and I know it's silly it's going to be a little cartoonish but this way hopefully you'll remember this
you see before you enter the interview you have to have somewhere between two to four stories prepared
that I called the four heroes and it has to demonstrate to the interviewer that you have these four
hero qualities that they're looking for.
The first one is technical you want to have a story prepared about your past experience maybe you worked
on a really difficult project or a personal project that is going to impress the interviewer.
A story just for yourself.
You know a lot about because you've worked on it and something that shows the interviewer as soon as
you tell the story that oh this person is really tactical and knows their stuff.
So that's when we build that wanted to.
Big project in our portfolio that we talked about at the beginning of the course.
That's when this comes in.
So you want to demonstrate that you're very technical and smart.
That's the first year the second one success and this hero's story shows you that you're a successful
person if you build something what did you do.
Did you maybe start a little app that turned out to be quite successful and got a lot of users.
Maybe your past job you got promoted to a senior level position.
You want to have some sort of story that shows you that you're a successful person not a person that
never succeeds in any job.
The next one is leadership.
Are you the type of person that takes charge doesn't get told what to do all the time and can be left
on their own.
Do you have leadership qualities.
And then the last one is challenge and challenge is they want to hear a story of you going through some
really challenging things maybe a challenging technical problem you had on a project and how you overcame
it because you're a type of person that when presented with something that is really difficult that
has no clear solution you can overcome it.
When left alone you can overcome any challenge.
And these four stories are going to be specific to you.
So I can't really give you a story to tell the interviewer look in your past experiences and I guarantee
you no matter what level of experience you have you'll have some stories from your past.
It could be from work could be from projects.
It could be from other things where you're able to demonstrate these four heroes the rest of this section.
The answer is we're going to give Well we're going to talk about are all going to demonstrate these
four heroes.
We're not going to say to the interviewer Oh I'm a very successful person because I did this.
No.
We're going to tell the stories that we have to remember remember two to four stories that demonstrate
these hero values and we're going to tell these stories and the interviewer is going to get that.
We have these four qualities these four heroes just through the stories.
And if you have these stories prepared before they interview well then you can always depending on what
question you get asked.
You can always answer these questions with some sort of these stories that you have because these stories
are already prepared for you.
This is where I say that all non-technical interviews sound the same because you have these stories
prepared and you just change them up a bit to answer the specific question.
But deep down inside you're just demonstrating these qualities.
Remember these qualities are the qualities that we have to answer the last two questions.
And that is can I work with this person.
And are you going to improve.
So let's get into it and answer some questions that we might get asked in an interview.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.